[Music]
Namo Amitabha Buddha.  Dear
friends, regarding going to the temple, I've received
many messages from
young people saying they're being discouraged by their families.
There are things parents say, like, "You should
worry about working and earning a living instead of going to the
temple," or "There are so many other things you
should be doing instead of going to the temple."  That means there are
many messages from young people,
and it's very difficult to resolve
this issue with their parents. So where does our parents'
objection come from? There's an old saying that
goes like this...   The
king's son becomes king, the
monk's son sweeps fallen leaves in the temple.  So, I'm
afraid that if my child goes to the temple,
they'll gradually end up just
sweeping leaves around the temple.  Going to the temple means
becoming a monk.  So, what do you think people who are fed up with
life would do?  If you're heartbroken,
go to the temple; if you can't make a living
in the outside world, go to the temple.  That means
there's a hidden sorrow in their heart that led them to enter the
temple.  This line of thinking is
n't entirely random;
it's based on numerous real-life
cases.  That was a long time ago.  There were
many in the old days.  Only in this day and age do those who become
monks realize that attending this school, that
class, that Buddhist university, and even earning a
PhD in Buddhism, is what truly matters
.  It didn't exist before.  Therefore,
this has become a ingrained habit in the
thinking of many people.  And we have
a whole love story, the story of Lan and Diep,
right?  So, Lan became a nun because of
heartbreak.  That's why it's become
a subconscious habit of the
previous generation.
It is now that they are beginning to
usher in a new generation of temple-visiting individuals.  Going to the
temple allows us to
absorb knowledge that is
rarely mentioned in our school curriculum,
namely education about karma.
Education about cause and effect has the benefit of leading
us
to independent thinking and a strong will to
succeed.  We do not see ourselves being
subdued by the current circumstances; we move forward to take
control of ourselves and others.  That is the
teaching of Buddhism.  When people begin
to practice orthodox Buddhism, they
become stronger.  They are determined and full of
life, aren't they?  For example, if
you understand the law of karma, and you
experience heartbreak, or someone leaves you,
instead of thinking that the other person is
cruel,
unfaithful, or
heartless, you should reflect and
realize that your relationship with
them only lasted that long.  I'm also trapped in
this cycle of karma and can't get out.   That's
why I'll continue sowing
new seeds so that I can have
new romantic relationships.  No more heartbreak like
Lan Diep, right?  It's to show
us that we know we are in
control of ourselves in all circumstances.
Now all you need to do is go home and tell your
parents that it's not easy for us to become monks or nuns
.  Because becoming a monk requires
these specific circumstances, my friends.
Firstly, one should
not personally cherish or
enjoy
the pleasures of life.   I
myself desire to escape the cycle of suffering and rebirth.   I've come to realize that
no amount of wealth can bring happiness.
I realized that no matter how high my status, it wouldn't
bring me happiness, and I
wanted to dedicate myself to serving all
sentient beings.  That's it, I did it myself.  To dedicate oneself to
serving all sentient beings without
weariness means that only a person with a very
generous and expansive heart can become a monk or nun.
If, right now, my parents see that I'm
still sad even when they don't give me money, or that I'm still
sad even when they don't let me go out to play, then I'm
not ready to become a monk yet.  Right?
You can't become a monk because you still have
desires; as long as you still have desires, you can't become a monk
.  When parents see their child like
this, they'll start to worry.  Firstly,
the child is truly filial to their parents.  My child
knows how to analyze right and wrong.  I
do not do evil things.  I do
good deeds.  My child lives a life of sacrifice for
others.  I may suffer a loss, but if it
brings peace and happiness to others, then when
I go to the temple, I will be able to stay there.  If you
don't have that yet, what will you gain by going to the temple
?  Let's go home now.  So, you
can answer your parents like that to
let them
know that you go to the temple to
gain knowledge so that in
this life, in this life where everyone
lives with greed, where everyone
cannot be sincere with each other, cannot
truly love each other, then you can prevent your own relationship from
falling apart.  Go to the
temple to learn the teachings of karma so that you can become
stronger and not be broken by the
storms of life, my dear children.  So, I'd
also like to share with you why
you go to the temple, so that your parents
know.  And the second part, besides the learning aspect, involves the
students
visiting a temple for spiritual reflection.  So, from a spiritual perspective, when
you go to the temple, you can get
closer to the monks so they can
answer your questions,
those questions that are still
bothering you.  And the second part is to be
close to the majestic power of the Buddhas,
Bodhisattvas, and holy monks who can protect and
bless me, giving
me strength to walk steadily through
life.  So, that's how you should answer your
parents.
Did you all understand what the teacher said
?  Could I have a cup of tea for you, please?
Yes, as I said, since
we are young people coming to the temple, we
cannot achieve the same
great aspirations as the monks who truly wish to
renounce worldly life and become monks. I
think you have all grasped what I just shared,
right?  So, after
today, when you go home, will you be able to answer your parents'
concerns that their children might become monks or nuns if they go to the temple
?
Yes.  "Well, teacher, since we've heard
questions and concerns from adults
about us coming to the temple, here's
a topic that most of us would
like you to answer: what are
the benefits for young people when they come to the temple
?"  We would appreciate it if you could
answer our question.
Yes.  The benefits for young people going to the temple are something
we can focus on
ourselves.  Previously,
she answered that she benefited herself
, meaning she could overcome
life's challenges through the principle of cause and effect.
What about society?  If a
person understands the law of cause and effect,
they will not do evil, but will do good.  So, is that
beneficial to society?   It is
very beneficial for society when, by
understanding cause and effect, we can control ourselves.
If everyone in this country had a
sense of self-reliance and a desire
to do good, the country would progress very
quickly.  And another thing is that the country doesn't
have negative, sad, and
passive people.  If our country doesn't live
passively, then we will lead
this country forward using our own internal strength
.   Ladies and
gentlemen, among
all religious denominations, each
has its own faith.
Do you all agree?
And that faith hopes that
the leader of that religious sect will be
their protector and guardian,
which is very good because it has a
benevolent nature.  But
if we are completely dependent
on something, for example, if we are
too sad or too miserable, please
bless us so that we can get through this suffering.  If
we remain so passive, without
knowing where our suffering lies, what causes it, and
how we can improve ourselves, if the entire nation waits
for such handouts,
won't all its people become passive?   They
became completely passive, praying
day after day without seeing
any deity open the way for them or grant
them anything.  If things continue like this, people will
become stuck and resentful, right?
But when the children go to the temple and
learn the Buddha's teachings, when
we pray for blessings for them,
we turn to the doctrine of karma
and we rise up very
strongly.
Is that correct?  So, in Buddhism, there
is self-reliance and reliance on others, but self-
reliance must be the primary factor.  That means if we
vow to leave this place of suffering
and vow to do good deeds, the
Buddhas will bless us.  But when
evil thoughts arise in our minds, meaning we suffer the
consequences and cause suffering to others, then there
are no Buddhas to protect us.  This means
that a Buddhist disciple understands that if
they strive to do good deeds that
benefit themselves and others, they
will receive the blessings of the Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, and holy monks,
and benevolent
deities will act as protectors, thus
ensuring their victory.  Therefore, whenever
you encounter a situation, just clasp your hands and say to the
Buddha, "Now I am facing this situation, and
with my mind, I wish to
be freed from this."  I want what benefits
me and everyone else.  I pray to
the Buddhas for their blessings so that I may
know how to resolve
this matter and be strong enough to overcome it.
At that point, your inner strength
will naturally grow stronger, and
with the added blessing, you will become
better.  But if we just keep
asking, and some deity asks for
this or that blessing for our children, then we'll just sit and
wait.  That's really tough.
Therefore, the benefit of going to the temple is that
we benefit ourselves and benefit
society.  But even now, this is only within
our own Buddhist tradition.
Not everyone who goes to the temple thinks that way;
a large number of people believe that going to the
temple is simply to pray and ask for things.  That's
not the right way to go to a
temple, guys.  Going to the temple
just to pray and ask for things is not the true
meaning of going to the temple; going to the temple should be about
learning the teachings of Buddha.  Let the teachings of
Buddha be the foundation for our personal development.
Just like when you
go to university to
acquire knowledge to prepare you
for life, going to the temple
has the same meaning, my dear students.
In other words, this is an environment, a
school, because the Buddha was a being of great
wisdom.  That's it, great wisdom teaches
us about our own minds, teaches
us how to control
our minds, so that we can be happy,
and teaches us to practice the Buddha's teachings
, enabling us to understand the psychology
of others and bring
them peace and joy.  That's the
benefit of going to the temple.
Furthermore, I would like to ask you, teacher,
what are the specific benefits of applying
Buddhist teachings when attending temples,
receiving guidance from teachers,
and applying them to studies, work, and
real life
?  Please give me an answer, sir/madam
.
Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you
have a practical question, meaning it needs to be
detailed.  In our studies,
we need intelligence, and in our daily lives,
we need blessings—namely,
fame, wealth, and
happiness.  Those are the most essential things,
aren't they?  So, the Buddha taught
this: we must learn to
love.  See, the Buddha is a man of great compassion and mercy.
Great wisdom, great compassion, great joy, great
equanimity, and great wisdom.  The essence of
Buddhism is to teach us
how to love others and to let go of
selfishness in our hearts.
That's it, when we learn to love
others, when we let go of the selfishness within
ourselves, our hearts naturally open up.  When
our hearts are open, that position leads
to fame and success.
There.  When our minds are open,
we gain wisdom.  Here, she's just giving one
example.  It only happens when our hearts become open
.  The two of them were talking,
and one of them offered an idea.  So,
if that person has an open mind to
listen and learn, then that person with an open mind
will be more intelligent.  But what if
one person
offers an opinion, but the other doesn't
listen and stubbornly sticks to their own?
Does that make the stubborn person any smarter?   It ca
n't get any smarter.  In
this matter of listening, compassion is also necessary.
What is love?  I'm listening to
what you have to make you happy.
Right?  Does it stem from
compassion?
When I want to make you happy,
I will listen to your opinions.
Whatever you want to convey, I will
receive it from you.  So what do you get in return?
In Buddhism, bringing joy to others is called giving, which means giving to
others to bring them peace and happiness.
Simply listening is a form of
charity.  Giving alms brings
joy to others, that is, relieving suffering and bestowing happiness, and thus the giver
gains wisdom.  It's such a small thing, do
you think it's applicable?
So, we just need to be receptive and allow the
person speaking to
fully express their point of view.  My
conscious act of listening has
already made this friend happy.  Because that friend
is happy, and I think that's an expression of love.
From this love arises
one's intellect.  So, does wisdom originate
from the heart?
That's right, wisdom also comes from the heart.  So,
could this small event be what
led us to our current position?  For example, do
leaders have to
listen to the opinions of many people?
That's all there is to it, just a small seed like that.   There is
no leader who
lacks the
virtue of listening to others.  A person who
doesn't listen to anyone can never be a
leader.  Right?
So now it's about social issues related to intellect and
career advancement.  So, in
business, you also need to be someone who knows how to
listen and understand from multiple perspectives, right
?  Only then can we be flexible in handling
our business.
If people don't know how to listen, they
can't handle things from multiple perspectives,
and that's bound to
lead to business failure, right?  So, is it
true that compassion is sown with the
very small seed of listening?   It's the same
within a family, too.
If a father and a mother
are good listeners to each other,
they will be able to resolve conflicts,
and if parents listen to their children's opinions, the
children will be happy and peaceful.  So, was the family
happy?
So it still stems from love,
right?  Therefore, a loving heart will
give rise to one's wisdom and
generate one's blessings.  But
our own hearts aren't always easy to
see.  Therefore,
Buddhist scriptures teach that there are many different types of minds.
So, as we gradually
learn about that kind of mindset, when
we recognize it within ourselves, we will know
how to deal with it.  There.  Therefore,
the mind is the foremost of all phenomena.  There.
The mind is the foremost of all phenomena.  The mind has the power to
create these three thousand great worlds
.  There.  For example, she can transform the mind
.  There.  For example, her heart is filled with
love and compassion.
So, this kind of mindset will guide those
who want to share their feelings to her,
right?  That's it, the kind of
friends you have is determined by your
own mindset.  And if someone
says that their friend is constantly harming them and
never being good to them, then
if they study Buddhism, they will look into
their own mind and see that they have
such negative thoughts within it.  And if we find a
way to transform it, that friend
will become a better person.  I also hope that when
you come to the temple and study Buddhism,
you will see the benefits for yourselves, which is learning
how to control your minds and doing good for
yourselves.
Thank you, teacher.  So, after reading her sharing, I
think we've understood just how much the
importance of listening in life can make a
difference, haven't we?
Listening is not simply about paying
attention when someone else speaks; it
must come from emotion, from a loving heart
.  By letting go of
selfishness through love, one's wisdom
will grow.  And listening must also
stem from multi-faceted listening, from multiple
perspectives, in order to gain a deeper understanding of the
issue and arrive at more accurate conclusions
.  Thank you, teacher.
Yes.  And while I'm at it, I'd like to ask you, teacher, how do the
benefits for young people coming to
this temple compare to the benefits of young people
doing charity work subjectively, or
going to the temple during their summer vacation
?
Yes.
Ladies and gentlemen, Quân has asked
a question: if
you were to do charity work or
visit a temple during the summer, which would bring
greater benefits?  Well, I based this on
your studies, too.   Is it better for
someone to perform better after receiving an education,
or for someone to
work instinctively without formal
training?  Studying will make things better, right
guys?  I have the knowledge, and I know
how to work effectively.  Teacher,
dear friends, if you go
to that temple during the summer,
you will learn about the law of
karma.
Once you understand that cause and effect are interconnected,
then doing
charity work will be a better option.  She will tell a
story about the charitable work of Venerable
Mục Kiền Niên.
Let's see which way of doing charity will be
more significant.   Venerable
Moggallana was the
Buddha's most powerful disciple in terms of supernatural abilities.  That means
his supernatural powers were top-notch, making him one of
the ten most outstanding disciples of the Buddha.
One day he finally got to know the
old woman who sold cakes in the city.
She died, and she was condemned to become a demon who
talked a lot because she was very
stingy and miserly.  She was so stingy
that when she died, she was condemned to be reborn as a
hungry ghost.  At that time,
before dawn, Mrs. Mục Kiền Niên had
already arrived at the shop of the lady.  If you just stand there
holding out your alms bowl to beg, this woman will start
cursing at you before she even opens her stall.
This damn guy is standing here asking for something before dawn, before the shop even opens,
and he's already asking if I'm going to
leave or not.  So she brought
out a broom to chase away Mr. MC Kien Nien.  He did
n't go either.  He said that if she
didn't give it to him today, he would definitely stand
here and not leave.  Then she got very angry.  She
said, "Even if he were dead, I would
n't let him come here."
So, Venerable Mục Kiền Niên possessed
supernatural powers.  And so he collapsed and
died right there.  He then conjured up
his own corpse, Zhang Ping.
She got really scared.  She said, "No, no, no, no,
don't die here anymore."   Get up and
I'll give it to you.  And so, Master Mu
Jiannian returned to his former self.  So she
started snapping at me for just one cake.
Then, Master Moggallana used
his supernatural powers to transform all the
cakes so that they grew lush and clung tightly to
her chopsticks.  That means all the pieces of the cake are
stuck together.  If she were to lift
this chopstick, all the dough
inside that so-called glutinous rice dumpling
would stick to it, and lifting it all up would
take an entire day.  She ca
n't do anything about it.  She kept struggling, but the
more she struggled, the tighter those cakes clung
to her.  She couldn't possibly have
gotten just one cake.
Then she thought to herself, if I
don't give it to her,
she'll just drop dead right here, and I'll die too, there's nothing I can do about it
.  She reluctantly picked up her chopsticks and
transferred all the cakes to the
alms bowl of Venerable Moggallana.  Then all
those cakes slipped down into the
alms bowl of Venerable Moggallana.
Because of that particular circumstance, she
wasn't condemned to become a hungry ghost.  After she
died, she was reborn in heaven.  That's because of a certain
karmic connection that she was born into heaven.
The second story is about
Sariputta, the
Buddha's most intelligent disciple
.
That day, while Sariputta was out begging for alms, he
saw a sick old beggar woman lying
by the roadside. He knew that
this old woman was about to die, and if she died, she would be
reborn as a hungry ghost.  He
brought his alms bowl and asked the old woman for some.  The old woman
told me she had nothing to give him.  There are plenty of other
people there, sir.  Ask for a place to
walk.  Then Venerable Sariputta said, "
I can still ask you to take
my alms bowl and draw
a bowl of water from the river for me to give as alms
."  Then this poor old woman
, upon hearing this, took
Sariputta's alms bowl and fetched
him an alms bowl of water.
Because of that good deed,
she will soon die.  After she died, she was
reborn in heaven.
There.  Therefore, in Buddhism, it is taught that
each person should practice giving to others
in order to transform their karma of poverty
into karma of wealth.
Transform a lowly profession into a
noble one.
That's teaching how to give alms.  So, if
you go to the temple and practice, you will gain
merit, that is, the
merit of listening to the Dharma to attain enlightenment, which is
also a supreme merit.  So,
this merit means that if your parents
give you even a penny for your education, they
are also creating good karma
.  See, right?  Normally,
my parents still have to give me money for food and tuition
.  But if we don't practice Buddhism, if
we don't observe the precepts, then whatever our parents
give us, we just consume it all, and there's nothing left to
dedicate to our parents, my dear
children.
That's right, because if we love the Buddha, if we love the
Dharma, if we love the Three Jewels, and if we practice and study
Buddhism, then whatever anyone gives us
will also bring them blessings.
Do you agree?  Now, she spoke to the recipient
.  If the recipient is wise,
understands the law of cause and effect, and
regularly practices the Dharma according to the law of cause and effect, then
the giver will also receive blessings.  Okay, now
I'm going to talk about a sermon that discusses the
relationship between giver and receiver.  The Buddha
taught that giving alms to 1000 wicked people
does not bring as much merit as giving alms to one
good person.   Out of
1000 evil people, what kind of person would they be?  The Buddha
defined evil people as those who kill,
steal, commit adultery,
lie,
or are addicted to drugs and vices
.  Why are they called evil people?  Because they are
cruel to themselves.  If they do
things like that, they will face
legal consequences right now.  And if they do
that, they will be condemned to ruin, not to mention
those who are cruel to others.  That means they are
cruel to themselves.  So, even if we
give alms to 1000 people, they will still be practicing the
art of killing animals, they will still have the heart of a
thief.  They still have deceitful hearts.  They
still have the karma of adultery, which means having
affairs, you know.  And they often get drunk, drink
alcohol, do drugs, and become addicted to
many things.  Giving alms to 1000 people is
not as good as giving alms to one
virtuous person.
And giving alms to 1000 good people is not as good as giving to
one person who takes refuge in the Buddha.
And giving alms to 1000 people who take refuge in the Three Jewels is not as valuable as giving alms to
one person who observes the precepts.
That means, even if there were a billion evil people, giving alms to
a billion evil people is not as good as giving alms to one
person who observes the precepts.  That's what she was talking about: good
fortune.  So, if throughout Vietnam,
people like these regularly give alms
to those who observe the precepts, then the merit of each
person will increase.  As each person's merit
increases, so does their wisdom.  So, if blessings
increase, will the country become wealthy?
Are you rich?  Wealth is gained because when
everyone gives alms to those who uphold the precepts,
the merit of the giver
increases.  If everything increases, then of course it's a
blessing for the nation, isn't it?  It needs to be increased.
Therefore, it is our destiny that
no land or country will be able to
invade us.  No
enemy can conquer us.  Then
all our business dealings and partnerships
with foreign countries will go smoothly and
favorably, and the country will develop.  That's the
practice of giving, right?  There.
Therefore, when the children go to the temple, they study and practice Buddhism
, and they give alms to each other.  For
example, by helping each other, some
people,
even those who are poor and suffering, have taken refuge in the Three Jewels
.  I can give alms to
people.  And if you can't
find such a person, but you still see
your people are poor and want to give alms,
then you should ask monks to go and give
alms; then you will receive
great benefit and blessings.  Because what have your hearts
been relying on?  Take refuge in the Three
Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha).  So, how is it different for someone to receive alms from the
Three Jewels, from other teachers, and from
someone to receive alms directly from oneself?
I will explain that to
you.
When someone receives alms from the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha),
they naturally express gratitude, saying, "Thank you,
teacher."
So, if people cultivate a connection with the
Three Jewels, in many future lives they will come to the
Three Jewels to learn the Buddha's teachings, and they will be like
us now, benefiting themselves
and others.
But if we do charity work ourselves,
then we are following our chosen path, and they are following theirs too
.  They are not yet able to take refuge in the
Three Jewels, are they?  Those are two
completely different benefits.  Therefore, we
hope that when summer comes and you
want to do charity work, you
should join the club so you can participate in
charitable activities.  You can help whoever you want.
And the second part is that you yourselves cultivate merit
to create fields of blessings for
your own loved ones.  For your own family members,
if you still need to ask your parents for permission to practice meditation, then
dedicate the merit of your spiritual practice
to your parents so that
you don't take anything from them without their consent.
I dedicate this merit to my parents so that they may be
healthy, free from illness, and live long
lives.  That is one way to show gratitude when
we practice fasting and
dedicate the merit to our parents.
Do you agree?
[Applause]
Oh yes.  Thank you, teacher.  She
answered our questions and clarified our doubts.
What lessons did you all learn from what she
shared?  That means we must
learn to cultivate a charitable spirit.  When we go to the
temple, we pay close attention to the
Buddha's teachings, the words of the monks and
senior monks, or the teachings
and guidance of our elders like the nun, so that we can find
something to rely on and apply
to our lives, thereby increasing our
merit and also instilling the intention to give alms so that we
and our parents
may also increase our blessings.  So, if my
parents gave me 10,000 dong, for
example, I would only spend seven of it on food, and my dad would put the rest in his piggy bank for
savings.  Then, they gradually accumulate the money and bring it to the
temple to offer to the Three Jewels, so that the merit gained can be
dedicated to their parents.
Do you understand?
[music]